#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Vision
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Understanding the Blockchain
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Over the past few years, an important innovation colloquially known as the
 “blockchain” has emerged as a potentially disruptive technology.
 The core of the innovation is built around the concept of a distributed
 cryptographic database.
 The database, also referred to as the ledger, is maintained by a network
 of computers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The ledger makes it possible for the entire network to create, evolve and
 keep track of an immutable record of transactions.
 The most successful blockchain application thus far has been Satoshi Nakamoto's
 cryptocurrency known as Bitcoin, which he outlined in his seminal paper,
 “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System” in 2008.
 This powerful technology has so far been been implicated in the numerous
 unregulated cyrptocurrencies that exist online.
 Financial institutions are only beginning to understand the potential applicati
ons of blockchains in conventionally regulated industries.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At a fundamental level the blockchain is a data structure that cryptographically
 links blocks of transactions or any potential transfers of value.
 As a paradigm, the blockchain allows for true privacy to exist between
 those involved in a transaction.
 It's structure allows for automation, immutability, and decentralization.
 These characteristics were carefully chosen by Nakamoto in order to create
 a digital mechanism of trust.
 For the financial world this would result in a more limited reliance on
 third party trust mechanisms enabling a direct contractual interface between
 two parties involved in any transfer of value.
 This technology has the power make such exchanges safer, faster, and cost-effec
tive.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ownership of value stored in the blockchain is established through asymmetrical
 cryptography.
 Digital keys, wallet addresses, and digital signatures are all created
 cryptographically to ensure total privacy in transmission of transactional
 data.
 Every transaction on the blockchain must be 'signed' by digital keys.
 Whoever owns these keys, owns access to the value stored in the wallet.
 All keys generated by the wallet software come in pairs.
 A private key, which is kept secret, and a public key.
 The public key is akin to a bank account number and the private key is
 like the secret pin used to control the account.
 The idea behind digital signatures is that private and public key pairs
 share a mathematical relationship such that a message(transaction) signed
 by a private key can be verified by a public key without revealing the
 private key.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Bitcoin blockchain network is structured as a peer-to-peer network architect
ure.
 In this network implementation, all nodes are equal or symmetric.
 There is no server, no centralized service, and no hierarchy in the Bitcoin's
 network.
 Blockchain implementations for the financial industry however, cannot allow
 for such an open and symmetric network structure.
 Bitcoin enthusiasts advocate therefore, that the blockchain and Bitcoin
 are fundamentally linked.
 This is a short sighted view taking into consideration that the Bitcoin
 technology stack exists to solve the problem of an unregulated digital
 currency.
 The same stack can be evolved to solve similar transfers of value over
 an asymmetric network.
 In doing so, one is not necessarily throwing out the baby(the blockchain)
 with the bath water(Bitcoin).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Context
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The last couple of years has seen the government initiate massive schemes
 like the Jan Dhan Yojna to provide the large unbanked population in India
 with financial services.
 According to a recent report by PriceWaterCoopers released last year, the
 unbanked population has halved to 233 million in 2015 from 557 million
 in 2011.
 While the numbers seem impressive, the fact that about half these added
 accounts have a balance of zero, makes this endevor by the government far
 less successful.
 According to government sources only about 27% of villages have banking
 services readily accessible.
 The success of mPesa in Kenya and bKash in Bangladesh could point to a
 cost effective and efficient method to extend financial inclusion to all
 segments of Indian society.
 The possibility of implementing mobile banking solutions necessitates a
 more thorough analysis of which underlying technology to implement.
 Blockchain technology would be an ideal protocol to set up the new age
 mobile banking technology.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The RBI has been making structural changes to the architecture of the banking
 industry.
 With the advent of payment banks in addition to universal banks, the RBI
 may introduce other banking institutions like custodian and wholesale banks.
 All of these banking institutions will have independent mechanisms of database
 management and settlement.
 Even though the current mood in the financial world with respect to the
 application of Blockchain technology to the banking sector lies in permissioned
 or private blockchains, inter-bank settlement and ledger maintenance could
 one day be carried out on the blockchain.
 Even intra-bank settlement can benefit greatly from the distributed ledger
 architecture of the blockchain.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The scenarios outlined above make a compelling case for why distributed
 ledger technology, or the blockchain, is extremely relevant to the financial
 industry in India today.
 Any attempt to service the massive underbanked population via expansion
 of infrastructure would be prohibitively expensive.
 Using the blockchain as the core protocol to carry out mobile banking,
 banks in India today could target these populations relatively easily.
 This is because Blockchain technology has significantly lower cost of deploymen
t, an immutable shared ledger, and robust security mechanisms.
 By reworking the service model followed by all banks today from the ground
 up, banking facilities could be served on mobile devices rather than physical
 locations resulting in massively reduced infrastructure costs.
 While financial institutions balk at the term 'shared ledger', in the permissio
ned blockchain paradigm, shared can be defined to only include the parties
 involved.
 The extent of how 'shared' the ledger is can be controlled depending on
 the use case.
 For instance the parties involved in a transaction, the payment service
 provider, and the regulatory bodies could all have access to a shared ledger
 without any other individual or institution having access.
 And finally blockchain ledgers are built upon technology derived from cryptogra
phic breakthroughs in theoretical Computer Science over the past few decades.
 Transactions between two parties are signed by digital signatures using
 cryptographic techniques and the transmission of these transactions is
 further encrypted.
 The parties 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
UPI
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A significant factor in the success of the mobile banking venture called
 Mpesa by Vodafone in Kenya was because of regulator backing.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
